# License Agreement 

1.	**This Agreement**. Any use of the content provided on GitHub by Sitecore (“Materials”) shall be governed by this license (“Agreement”). This Agreement shall apply to any person or application for each access or any other use of the Materials with any device or in any form (“You” or “Your”). You may not and will immediately discontinue any use or access of the Materials if you do not acknowledge and fully agree with this License. 
2.	**Materials**. The Materials provided by Sitecore are on an “AS-IS” and “WITH ALL FAULTS” basis. Sitecore grants you a limited, temporary, non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-assignable, and non-sublicensable license to access and use the Materials in compliance with all applicable laws and this Agreement. Ownership of the Materials and all worldwide rights, title and interest in and to any intellectual property associated with the Materials shall remain solely and exclusively with Sitecore or the respective owners of such intellectual property. 

3.	**Your Input**. You may transmit or publish content, suggestions, enhancement requests, recommendations or other feedback created by You (“User Content”). You do not transfer any ownership right in the User Content and you hereby grant Sitecore a non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide, transferable, sublicensable, irrevocable, perpetual license to use, copy (in whole or in part), modify, display in any form now known or hereinafter developed, distribute, and make derivative works of, including by incorporating into any product or service owned by Sitecore, any User Content provided by You relating to any product or service owned by Sitecore. You are solely responsible User Content and the consequences of its transmission or publication.

4.	**Restrictions**. You agree not to: (a) use the Materials in a greater capacity than authorized under this Agreement; (b) access, use, or copy any portion of the Materials to directly or indirectly to develop, promote or support any product or service that is competitive with Sitecore; (c) remove any identification, patent, trademark, copyright, or other notice from the Materials; (d) use the Materials in any manner that brings any Sitecore brands, trademarks, products or services into disrepute.